---
title: Day 5
description: Trying some new stuff and looking forward to more.
toc: true
layout: post
comments: true
hide: false
search_exlude: false
categories: [daily]
---

# More Hacks from This Week

Remember Day 4? Maybe not. Here were the three things I set out to do by the end of today:

- Create a page from a ".docx" file with Google Docs.
- A page with vocabulary and notes from the "Psychology and the Good Life" speech by Laurie Santos.
- (Optional, not for class) A fun little survey idea I had.

Let's go over what I ended up doing.

## Psychology and the Good Life Notes

I was initially planning to focus on vocabulary presented in the video and how to apply it, but it ended up being almost completely devoid of any particular "vocabulary." Instead, though I did have a definition for the "GI Joe Fallacy," I ended up just taking some general notes from the video.

The whole reason for the "vocabulary" aspect was a certain note in various Hacks and objectives about using my site to collect and define vocabulary.

I hadn't really considered that I already basically did that with Python in my notes from about day ago. I think I'm safe to put that goal to rest for now.

### Trying .docx Files

The formatting of the notes is quite visibly different. This is because it was initially a Google Doc converted to a Microsoft Word file. To fit a certain Hack, I put it in the `_word` folder and let it automatically become a post.

The only problem with this is that I am unable to take it out of the "Posts" list as far as I'm aware. I cannot add front matter to the .docx file so I cannot use `hide: true`. Otherwise, the formatting is unique and interesting. I'm not sure if I'd willingly go back to this format in the future.

### Change of Plans

Initially, I planned on making the Day 5 post a Word document rather than the Focus and Habits notes, but ultimately it made more sense to take notes in a format I'm more used to. Disregard what I implied in my Day 4 conclusion.

# This Weekend?

It was a busy day, so I never got to make the for-fun survey. I'll probably mess around over the weekend and do it.

Since I started from scratch this Monday, there's no precedent set for posting on weekends. Do I plan on making Day 6 on Saturday and 7 on Sunday?

No. I've spent time considering it, but especially after what was discussed in the Focus and Habits video, I'd like to balance my time to spend most of my weekends with friends and family rather than doing gratuitous amounts of school work.

I'll make my Review Ticket to show everything I've done as soon as possible and be done there.

See you next week!